User

For irked we have quite a few avenues to go down on first arrival. 
upon first inspection of this box we only have a photo and text saying "IRC is almost Working!"
Initially I go to stego and download the photo to see what I can find but using the command 
"steghide extract -sf irked.jpg -xf message.txt"
we will see that the image needs a passphrase to decode the information in the photo so there must be another way in.
For this box a nmap scan of all of the ports is neccessary and with that we will find open ports for Unreal3.2 IRC
with a quick google search we find a well known CVE and gets us a low priv shell very easilly.
Now that we are in the box with a shell we gotta look around a little bit for information.
Always use the command "ls -la" and not just "ls" because the -la means "list all" which will show hidden files when "ls" will not.
searching around we find the backup stego password which we can use to crack that photo we found earlier.
The message inside of the file is a DES hash which i assumed to be a password to something.
I looked back at the open ports and port 22 was open for SSH.
so I tried to login to SSH with the stego password and it worked, Now we have the user.

Time for piv esc on Irked.

The first thing I do on a box when going for root is run an enumeration script to see everything that is running
upon doing this we find the binary which looks a little suspect of what we need since we need to change our user to the root user.
so i downloaded this file with python and used "strace" and "lstrace" to find out exactly what the binary is doing.
with further inspection of the binary we find that the binary is looking for a bash file called "listusers" under the /tmp/ directory,
This binary will run whatever is in the file as the root user.
with this formation things became very easy, all that there is to do now is break it.
to do that we just need to put "su root" in our bash script since it is running as root and it will change our user to root.


we have rooted the box.
